Add CONTRIBUTING.md, closes #17 (#26)
eclipse-dataspaceconnector/DataSpaceConnector: CONTRIBUTING.md

Contributing to Dataspace Connector
===================================

Thank you for your interest contributing to
the [Eclipse Dataspace Connector](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/technology.dataspaceconnector)!

> ## Table of Contents

Reviewer: let's check the length of the md in sum. Maybe toc is not needed at all.

Author: I personally would like to keep the TOC since it provides orientation to the reader.

* [Code Of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
* [Eclipse Contributor Agreement](#eclipse-contributor-agreement)
* [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
    * [Discuss](#discuss)
    * [Create an Issue](#create-an-issue)
    * [Submit a Pull Request](#submit-a-pull-request)

## Project Description

See [README.md](README.md) for a comprehensive project description.

## Code Of Conduct

This project is governed by
the [Eclipse Code Of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). You are expected to
keep up to the code of conduct while participating in this project.

## Eclipse Contributor Agreement

Before your contribution can be accepted by the project, you need to create and electronically sign
a [Eclipse Contributor Agreement (ECA)](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/ecafaq.php):

1. Log in to the [Eclipse foundation website](https://accounts.eclipse.org/user/login/). You will need to create an
   account with the Eclipse Foundation if you have not already done so.
2. Click on "Eclipse ECA", and complete the form.

Be sure to use the same email address in your Eclipse account that you intend to use when you commit to GitHub.

## How to Contribute

> ### Discuss

Reviewer: Move mailing list to "contact us", don't expect that to be the normal way of interacting. Better stay in GH.

If you have questions or suggestions feel free to contact the project developers via
the [project's "dev" list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mailman/listinfo/dataspaceconnector-dev). If you suppose there is a
bug or issue contribute to discussions in
[existing issues](https://github.com/eclipse-dataspaceconnector/DataSpaceConnector/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen)
otherwise [file a new issue](#file-an-issue).

> ### File an issue

Reviewer 2: is this a typo? "Fill an issue"

Author: Has been reworded everywhere to "Create an Issue".

Reviewer 2: Looks like my English was just really bad. File an issue is just a term I didn't know. In case you want to revert your commit

Author: All good, let's keep this phrase as it is right now - This way it's way clearer for the reader.

> Although your contributions are always welcome please remember to search

Reviewer: Important to mention that people should search for existing issues before opening a new one but I wouldn't start with that disclaimer. First of all we embrace every idea + contribution.

Author: You're right - wording was perhaps a bit harsh. Did some slight rewording. Please let me know whether it's better now.

for [existing issues](https://github.com/eclipse-dataspaceconnector/DataSpaceConnector/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen)
before creating one.

If none of the existing issues meet your expectation feel free to file a new one at our projects
corresponding [Github Issues page](https://github.com/eclipse-dataspaceconnector/DataSpaceConnector/issues/new).

We
use [Github's default label set](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/using-labels-and-milestones-to-track-work/managing-labels)
to classify issues.

### Submit a Pull Request

> * If you have not previously done so, please sign

Reviewer: details are already given above

Author: Yeah, that sentence was removed since it introduced redundancy.

  the [Eclipse Contributor Agreement (ECA)](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/ecafaq.php).

> * Always apply the following copyright header to specific files in your work, attach the following boilerplate

Reviewer: what about just linking to project handbook?
Guess most contributors will just copy&paste from existing files

Author: Added a link to the Eclipse Project Handbook to the preface of that section. Anyway I think licensing of source files is a conscious act and therefore we should keep this point here to provide clear guidance

    Copyright (c) {year} {owner}[ and others]

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0 which is available at
    https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

    Contributors:
      {name} - {description}
    ```

* The git commit messages should comply to the following format:
    ```
    <component>: <description>
    ```

  Use the [imperative mood](https://github.com/git/git/blob/master/Documentation/SubmittingPatches)
  as in "Fix bug" or "Add feature" rather than "Fixed bug" or "Added feature" and
  [mention the GitHub issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue)
  e.g. `transfer process: improve logging, closes #3`.

  All committers, and all commits, are bound to
  the [Developer Certificate of Origin.](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/DCO.php)

>   As such, all parties involved in a contribution must have valid ECAs and commits must
>   include [valid "Signed-off-by" entries](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Development_Resources/Contributing_via_Git). Commits
>   can be signed off by included the `-s` attribute in your commit message, for
>   example, `git commit -s -am 'Interesting Commit Message.`
> 

Reviewer: signed-off is optional, see https://www.eclipse.org/lists/eclipse.org-committers/msg01291.html

```suggestion
  As such, all parties involved in a contribution must have valid ECAs. Additionally commits can
  include a ["Signed-off-by" entry](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Development_Resources/Contributing_via_Git). 
```

## Table of Contents

* [Project Description](#project-description)
* [Code Of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
* [Eclipse Contributor Agreement](#eclipse-contributor-agreement)
* [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
    * [Discuss](#discuss)
    * [Create an Issue](#create-an-issue)
    * [Submit a Pull Request](#submit-a-pull-request)
* [Contact Us](#contact-us)

## Project Description

See [README.md](README.md) for a comprehensive project description.

## Code Of Conduct

See the [Eclipse Code Of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php).

## Eclipse Contributor Agreement

Before your contribution can be accepted by the project, you need to create and electronically sign
a [Eclipse Contributor Agreement (ECA)](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/ecafaq.php):

1. Log in to the [Eclipse foundation website](https://accounts.eclipse.org/user/login/). You will need to create an
   account with the Eclipse Foundation if you have not already done so.
2. Click on "Eclipse ECA", and complete the form.

Be sure to use the same email address in your Eclipse Account that you intend to use when you commit to GitHub.

## How to Contribute

### Discuss

> If you feel there is a bug or issue contribute to discussions in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you feel there is a bug or issue, contribute to discussions in
```

> If you feel there is a bug or issue contribute to discussions in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you feel there is a bug or an issue contribute to discussions in
```

[existing issues](https://github.com/eclipse-dataspaceconnector/DataSpaceConnector/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen)
otherwise [create a new issue](#create-an-issue).

### Create an Issue

If you have identified a bug or just want to share an idea to further enhance

> the project feel free to create a new issue at our projects corresponding 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the project, feel free to create a new issue at our projects corresponding 
```

[Github Issues page](https://github.com/eclipse-dataspaceconnector/DataSpaceConnector/issues/new).

Before doing so please consider searching for potentially suitable 
[existing issues](https://github.com/eclipse-dataspaceconnector/DataSpaceConnector/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen). 

> There might already have been someone who already had the same idea or issue. Your input there is always valuable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There might have been someone who already had the same idea or issue. Your input there is always valuable.
```

> There might already have been someone who already had the same idea or issue. Your input there is always valuable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We also
use [Github's default label set](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/using-labels-and-milestones-to-track-work/managing-labels)
to classify issues and improve findability.

### Submit a Pull Request

In addition to the contribution guideline made available in the [Eclipse project handbook](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#contributing)

> we would appreciate if your Pull Request applies to the following points:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
we would appreciate if your Pull Request meets the following requirements:
```

> we would appreciate if your Pull Request applies to the following points:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we would appreciate if your pull request applies to the following points:
```

> * Always apply the following copyright header to specific files in your work, attach the following boilerplate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Always apply the following copyright header to specific files in your work and include the following boilerplate
```

> * Always apply the following copyright header to specific files in your work, attach the following boilerplate
>   declaration, replacing the fields enclosed by curly brackets "{}" with your own identifying information. (Don't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Always apply the following copyright header to specific files in your work replacing the fields enclosed by curly brackets "{}" with your own identifying information. (Don't
```

  include the curly brackets!) Enclose the text in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format.

    ```text
    Copyright (c) {year} {owner}[ and others]

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0 which is available at
    https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

>     Contributors: 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Contributors: 
```

Author: Removed.

      {name} - {description}
    ```

* The git commit messages should comply to the following format:
    ```
    <component>: <description>
    ```

  Use the [imperative mood](https://github.com/git/git/blob/master/Documentation/SubmittingPatches)
  as in "Fix bug" or "Add feature" rather than "Fixed bug" or "Added feature" and
  [mention the GitHub issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue)
  e.g. `transfer process: improve logging, closes #3`.

  All committers, and all commits, are bound to
  the [Developer Certificate of Origin.](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/DCO.php)
  As such, all parties involved in a contribution must have valid ECAs and commits must
  include [valid "Signed-off-by" entries](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Development_Resources/Contributing_via_Git). Commits

>   can be signed off by included the `-s` attribute in your commit message, for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  can be signed off by including the `-s` attribute in the commit command, for
```

  example, `git commit -s -am 'Interesting Commit Message.`

* We prefer small changes and short living branches. Please do not combine independent things in one pull request.

> * Prefix the branch you're submitting with an issue number, e.g. `725-add-new-feature`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Excessive branching and merging can make git history confusing. With that in mind please

    * [Squash your commits](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History#_squashing)
      down to a few commits, or one commit, before submitting a pull request and
    * [Rebase](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Rebasing) your pull request changes on top of the current

>       master. Pull requests shouldn't include merge commits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      main branch. Pull requests shouldn't include merge commits.
```

* Add meaningful tests to verify your submission acts as expected.

* Where code is not self-explanatory add documentation providing extra clarification.

> * Submit your pull request when ready. Make sure automatically kicked off checks pass, thus as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Submit your pull request when ready. Make sure that the following types of automated tests run successfully:
```

    * _Intellectual Property Validation_ verifying the [Eclipse CLA](#eclipse-contributor-agreement) has been signed as
      well as commits have been signed-off and

>     * _Continuous Integration_ performing various test proving functional integrity and alignment with our coding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * _Continuous Integration_ performing various test
```

      conventions.

### Contact Us

> If you have questions or suggestions do not hesitate to contact the project developers via

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have questions or suggestions, do not hesitate to contact the project developers via
```

> the [project's "dev" list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mailman/listinfo/dataspaceconnector-dev). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the [mailing list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mailman/listinfo/dataspaceconnector-dev). 
```
